what happens if another crisis comes in
if a recession unfolds and inflation is
still too high well that presents us
with a big problem that's what we'll
discuss today this is important for you
and your family my name is David
quintiri and I am here to give you what
you need to know and make sure that you
don't see what you don't want to know
because all of that information out
there is always clouding your judgment
it's making it difficult so each and
every day I bring you the latest and
greatest and that's what we're going to
do today you came here for the truth so
let me unveil that for you the very
first thing is what it's all about
Canada has the highest household debt
level in the G7 this gives us a little
look at what happens when a country and
their people take on way too much debt
you can see it here they can measure it
in different ways of course with real
estate being where it is you will see
that people are overly extended and this
is just one piece of the puzzle looking
at it I mean there's credit cards
there's uh you know your cars your
houses everything else but mortgages
currently make up about three quarters
of household debt in Canada so they tell
you that it's okay because it's real
estate it's okay because the prices of
homes have always gone up except back in
the let's say early 90s there was a
problem yes housing prices came down but
ever since then they've been going up so
the real estate professionals the
mortgage everybody connected with real
estate indirectly or directly is saying
you don't have to worry because their
entire career they have only seen prices
go up 2020 nothing happened 2008
financial crisis nothing happened so you
could see how their judgment is like
this but when you see people up to the
gills in debt it presents itself with a
big problem because there is a ceiling
on what people are able to deal with you
think it's bad in some of these cities
in the United States we are looking at
severe crises you know just basically in
every major city around the world this
is a crisis this is death with interest
rates on top of it that you can't pay
back and you look at it mathematically
and realize wait a minute this is like
running right into a brick wall and
that's exactly how it is really being
outlined today it's not just Canada look
at all the major cities they deal with
the same problems
and so we don't get paid enough money we
have to buy things that are cost them
more but we don't get more out of it are
you getting more not really maybe if you
compare it to hundreds of years ago you
could say well you know we didn't have
running water now we have running water
okay but just in the last you know 20 30
years the advancements haven't been that
great but let me tell you the prices I
don't know about you but the prices
haven't sort of kept up okay so looking
at all of this I mean I could just tell
you this is one example of what has
happened when interest rates rise and it
takes place in you know the commercial
side or the multi-family residence where
this one individual he is a syndicator
he's one of thousands of real estate
entrepreneurs in the US known as
syndicators many have come under
Financial pressure and whole properties
that they can no longer afford so these
guys they raise a whole bunch of money
they said hey we're going to buy this
real good thing but they took on
variable mortgage rates and another
thing about the this side the commercial
side they call it commercial by the way
it is residential but they're buying
properties that are let's say 100 units
300 units whatever the case and so
in this case you're you know they they
may not get those the loan it's not like
you get a 25-year 30-year loan on a
property like this right these are much
more short term they're supposed to be
stable but it depends on the
circumstances and of course if you're
relying on interest rates to remain low
you're in big trouble and we face that
not regularly but when that does happen
it doesn't matter how big you are you're
gonna get wiped out
you could have one property you could
have a thousand properties but
eventually at some point like this is
what people don't understand about the
stock market it's that oh I'm going to
grow it bigger and bigger and bigger and
bigger and they're not really
diversifying in proper diversification
right and not not what they tell you in
the
mainstream so just imagine this you now
what you I grew my portfolio to six
million dollars oh I'm feeling so good
wouldn't you feel real bad if you had a
six million dollar portfolio and then
you got squashed versus a smaller
portfolio you don't want to see that
okay the bigger the number gets the
harder it hurts let me tell you that
okay let me tell you let me cover some
charts right now incredible to see this
because you're seeing some data that's
coming through and it's looking positive
but then there are other things not so
good I got some for you you can see the
general business activity coming from
the Philly fed nine out of the last 10
months it is in the negative what about
this one here the manufacturing survey
again and again and again it's not
looking good because of the strength of
the economy after 2020 as well there was
a big demand and then that has come down
that's part of what's the problem in
China as well same situation right but
the output there is is still high it's
just not where it once was of course I'm
always looking by the way when you ever
look at any of these stats make sure
you're seeing this like year is it year
over year or is it an index like how are
they measuring this because if we take a
lot of the stuff from 2020 and 2021 like
that was really skewed so we want to be
able to you know keep that in mind
that's all
okay and you're seeing just several
business activity indexes just so many
of them in terms of shipments volume
view orders backlog of orders and so on
you might want to screenshot that you
might want to just pause the video but
you can see for yourself several of
these indicators are not looking good
right now and that's part of General
economic activity declining at least as
we measure it year over year
now a lot of people have been asking
okay with all this debt with the
increasing interest rates all the stuff
right like the the Federal Reserve they
are actively weaning off their balance
sheet with their quantitative tightening
policy and that is the mortgage-backed
Securities and the treasuries so who's
buying it who's buying it who's buying
it let me show you
see for yourself can you believe it
households
households are the biggest buyers of the
treasuries
can you send that since the beginning of
quantitative thickening who has stepped
in
I mean it's unbelievable the household
that but why it's because they're going
to get a better return there than they
are with a lot of these other things
they feel that it's risk-free and so
yeah I'll buy some treasuries I can get
a few percent of my money and it's quote
unquote guaranteed why not so you see
that Federal Reserve
they sell off
the U.S
investor comes in to save the day
but what happens if the markets suddenly
change and you're no longer getting that
return from these treasuries then we
have a problem and then the Federal
Reserve has to start buying those up
again
you have to understand this this is
where I'm buying this all in
very important stuff and you could see
it right here and now in this particular
chart now if you have questions let me
know I answer questions in fact have
been doing so since 2011 every single
day in the comments section so you gotta
let me know what's going on inside your
head what you need to know as we move
into the next part I want you to just
think for a second of the you know how
many moving Parts there are in any
economy or financial system and the us
as we see it today there's so many
things going on and you look over here
if you've got the blinders on you're not
going to see what's going on on the
other side but it is uh something to
point out like we gotta look at all the
different angles of this
for companies that need to borrow money
these days it pays to be big the Federal
Reserve rate Rising campaign has put a
notable crimp on the financing for
companies with smaller payrolls and
valuations yeah you know what's very
clear here when you are borrowing money
as a small business you got to go to the
bank you got to go to the lender you
have to get it in these different ways
you're not borrowing cheaply however if
you're a big establishment they're going
to the corporate debt market and they're
getting it for significantly cheaper
they can actually issue debt they can
create in a sense create money out of
thin air
and do it that way
isn't that so interesting right
but that's the way it works big
businesses have this ultimate advantage
that you and I do not okay my business
other business not this one is something
that quite frankly is very difficult to
scale when you're working within your
limits so so more people are ordering
more purchases are coming through okay I
gotta think all 100 of my profits I take
them all and I put that in to new
inventory if I need Services I have you
know
um companies that take care of the
advertisement this and that I have to
pay for that as part of this but I'm not
I'm not going to the debt Market okay I
can't do that and then I'm not going to
also go to the bank because now the
interest rates are going to be there and
I'm going to you know think about that
oh wait a second five percent is it
going to be seven percent next time
forget it so my scaling process is
significantly slower than it would be if
I was some you know AI tech company it's
this doesn't work like this so that's
just a little bit of inside scoop small
business versus big business I hope you
appreciate that and a little bit of
anecdotes that I throw in there when I
can to give you the personal information
hopefully to make sense of it all I
thought it was interesting when we're
talking about the debt ceiling the debt
crisis my favorite Janet Yellen and by
the way don't say Janet yellen's your
favorite she's my favorite okay anyway
the next accounting maneuver that Yellen
can take in early June is one that will
have no real long-term impact if the
debt ceiling is raised the treasury can
postpone investment in a pension fund
for retired and disabled foreign
employees once the debt ceiling crisis
has passed these Investments can resume
its way to buy a little bit more time so
all of this because why they have to pay
the debt back the interest on the debt
before they can pay out you the
individual and your needs
interest rates rise all of these
problems take place small businesses
take a hit you're looking at the Pension
funds in this case here I mean just one
after the other after the other
isn't it crazy but that's the way it
works
and so for a lot of people you know what
they can do I think it is really really
key to just pay attention I want to
cover this just really quickly
um it's just saying that you know
there's way too much investment in some
you know very few companies five
companies they mentioned Apple
specifically saying it is ridiculous
that they have so much of the market and
so there's these risks that are all
piling up now today that's why we need
to be broadly invested we need to take
our time with our investments and
actually study them and learn from the
mistakes that we've made in the past
don't double down on something you think
like a like a gambler wants to do that
big mistake okay so we got to learn what
we can and at this time we don't want to
be exposed to anything that is you know
potentially higher risk okay
so we want to have the balance and what
I mean by that is essentially looking at
the different Investments that will be
there time tested and true that would be
something that uh is like a household
name that's where we want to be right
now we don't want to take those high
risks even though the Market's been
performing very well overall the real
estate and so on we can scale that back
a bit we can watch and we can you know
get into things and nothing don't invest
but be careful that's all that's my
message and I'll see you tomorrow take
care